In some areas, obesity is considered an acute health problem. While some blame junk food advertisements for it and say that they should be prohibited, others don’t think that is the main reason for obesity. The first view follows the school of thought that people get misguided because advertisements show junk food as a delicious and healthy meal. The second view believes that if someone is careful about their health, no advertisement can persuade them to eat junk food.

When people see junk food advertisements, they get the thought of trying them. Then, when they repeatedly see in ads that consuming them is highly pleasurable, their thought turns into a desire, to which they ultimately give in, and spoil their health. I disagree with this viewpoint because ads merely tell a lie of how junk food is good, which we all know is bad, and if someone falls for them, it is the person’s fault. The 2-minute noodles ad is a perfect example for this. The ad made the noodles look tasty and claimed that it has vitamins and nutrient values, which led to a huge customer base, although it was false advertising.

The second viewpoint states that ads cannot be blamed for obesity because they do not force people to consume junk food. They are merely a suggestion, and most people who are aware that junk food is unhealthy always have the choice to stay away from it. One cannot say junk food ads are responsible for obesity, because sportsmen and other fit people see the same ads but choose to not fall for it. I completely agree with this viewpoint because we cannot blame our surroundings for our bad health. It is a choice we make. For instance, Coca-Cola is a drink that makes a fortune just by selling sugar water. However, in a video, when the famous footballer Cristiano Ronaldo rejected a Coca-Cola bottle and requested water instead, Coca-Cola's stocks went down and people realized that they cannot be influenced by fancy advertising. It is a person’s choice to be healthy and the right habits and choices matter, not the ads.

In conclusion, some people believe that advertisements of junk food are a huge factor in the number of obese people today, while others feel that the ads are not to be blamed. It is a choice without the influence of any ad that a person makes when they consume junk food. I believe that the second stance makes sense and people should focus on building the correct habits and a healthy lifestyle rather than banning ads.
